# LC 621. Task Scheduler

You are given an array of CPU tasks, each represented by letters A to Z, and a cooling time, n. Each cycle or interval allows the completion of one task. Tasks can be completed in any order, but there's a constraint: identical tasks must be separated by at least n intervals due to cooling time.

​Return the minimum number of intervals required to complete all tasks.

 

Example 1:

Input: tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2

Output: 8

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B.

After completing task A, you must wait two cycles before doing A again. The same applies to task B. In the 3rd interval, neither A nor B can be done, so you idle. By the 4th cycle, you can do A again as 2 intervals have passed.

Example 2:

Input: tasks = ["A","C","A","B","D","B"], n = 1

Output: 6

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> C -> D -> A -> B.

With a cooling interval of 1, you can repeat a task after just one other task.

Example 3:

Input: tasks = ["A","A","A", "B","B","B"], n = 3

Output: 10

Explanation: A possible sequence is: A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> idle -> A -> B.

There are only two types of tasks, A and B, which need to be separated by 3 intervals. This leads to idling twice between repetitions of these tasks.

 

Constraints:

1 <= tasks.length <= 104
tasks[i] is an uppercase English letter.
0 <= n <= 100

# Solution

```c++

class Solution {
public:
    int leastInterval(vector<char>& tasks, int n) {
        // to keep track of counts
        unordered_map<char, int> mp;
        for(auto t: tasks) {
            mp[t]++;
        }

        priority_queue<int> pq;
        // pushing counts into pq
        for(auto count: mp) {
            pq.push(count.second);
        }

        int cycle = n + 1; // for each task to be done
        int totalTime = 0; // final answer

        while(!pq.empty()) {
            int time = 0;
            vector<int> temp; // keep track of count of tasks after performing it, if 0 not added to the pq
            for (int i = 0; i < cycle; i++) {
                if (!pq.empty()) {
                    temp.push_back(pq.top());
                    pq.pop();
                    time++;
                }
            }

            // decrementing count of each task performed
            for (auto count: temp) {
                if(--count) pq.push(count);
            }

            // if pq in not empty then time taken will be one full cycle else no of tasks performed
            if (!pq.empty()) {
                totalTime += cycle;
            } else {
                totalTime += time;
            }
        }

        return totalTime;
    }
};

```